docs/configuration.md, before:

---
id: config
title: Configuration
---

gotify/server can be configured per config file and environment variables.
When using docker it is recommended to use environment variables.

## Config File

gotify/server looks in the following paths for config files

- ./config.yml
- /etc/gotify/config.yml

**Note**: When strings contain reserved yml characters then they need to be escaped.
[A list of reserved characters and how to escape them.](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064/4244993)

```yml
server:
  port: 80 # the port for the http server
  ssl:
    enabled: false # if https should be enabled
    redirecttohttps: true # redirect to https if site is accessed by http
    port: 443 # the https port
    certfile: # the cert file (leave empty when using letsencrypt)
    certkey: # the cert key (leave empty when using letsencrypt)
    letsencrypt:
      enabled: false # if the certificate should be requested from letsencrypt
      accepttos: false # if you accept the tos from letsencrypt
      cache: data/certs # the directory of the cache from letsencrypt
      hosts: # the hosts for which letsencrypt should request certificates
        - mydomain.tld
        - myotherdomain.tld
  responseheaders: # response headers are added to every response (default: none)
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: "*"
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: "GET,POST"
  stream:
    allowedorigins: # allowed origins for websocket connections (same origin is always allowed, default only same origin)
      - ".+.example.com"
      - "otherdomain.com"
database: # see below
  dialect: sqlite3
  connection: data/gotify.db
defaultuser: # on database creation, gotify creates an admin user (these values will only be used for the first start, if you want to edit the user after the first start use the WebUI)
  name: admin # the username of the default user
  pass: admin # the password of the default user
passstrength: 10 # the bcrypt password strength (higher = better but also slower)
uploadedimagesdir: data/images # the directory for storing uploaded images
```

## Database

| Dialect  |                              Connection                              |
| :------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| sqlite3  |                        `path/to/database.db`                         |
|  mysql   |   `gotify:secret@/gotifydb?charset=utf8&parseTime=True&loc=Local`    |
| postgres | `host=localhost port=3306 user=gotify dbname=gotify password=secret` |

When using postgres without SSL then `sslmode=disable` must be added to the connection string.
See [#90](https://github.com/gotify/server/issues/90).

## Environment Variables

Strings in list or map environment settings (f.ex. `GOTIFY_SERVER_RESPONSEHEADERS` and `GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_HOSTS`) need to be escaped.
[A list of reserved characters and how to escape them.](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064/4244993)

See yml config documentation.

```bash
GOTIFY_SERVER_PORT=80
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_ENABLED=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_REDIRECTTOHTTPS=true
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_PORT=443
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_CERTFILE=
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_CERTKEY=
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_ENABLED=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_ACCEPTTOS=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_CACHE=certs
# lists are a little weird but do-able (:
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_HOSTS=- mydomain.tld\n- myotherdomain.tld
GOTIFY_SERVER_RESPONSEHEADERS="Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"*\"\nAccess-Control-Allow-Methods: \"GET,POST\""
GOTIFY_SERVER_STREAM_ALLOWEDORIGINS="- \".+.example.com\"\n- \"otherdomain.com\""
GOTIFY_DATABASE_DIALECT=sqlite3
GOTIFY_DATABASE_CONNECTION=gotify.db
GOTIFY_DEFAULTUSER_NAME=admin
GOTIFY_DEFAULTUSER_PASS=admin
GOTIFY_PASSSTRENGTH=10
GOTIFY_UPLOADEDIMAGESDIR=images
```

Commit message:

Add info about config.example.yml

docs/configuration.md, after:

---
id: config
title: Configuration
---

gotify/server can be configured per config file and environment variables.
When using docker it is recommended to use environment variables.

## Config File

gotify/server looks in the following paths for config files

- ./config.yml
- /etc/gotify/config.yml

**Note**: When strings contain reserved yml characters then they need to be escaped.
[A list of reserved characters and how to escape them.](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064/4244993)

```yml
server:
  port: 80 # the port for the http server
  ssl:
    enabled: false # if https should be enabled
    redirecttohttps: true # redirect to https if site is accessed by http
    port: 443 # the https port
    certfile: # the cert file (leave empty when using letsencrypt)
    certkey: # the cert key (leave empty when using letsencrypt)
    letsencrypt:
      enabled: false # if the certificate should be requested from letsencrypt
      accepttos: false # if you accept the tos from letsencrypt
      cache: data/certs # the directory of the cache from letsencrypt
      hosts: # the hosts for which letsencrypt should request certificates
        - mydomain.tld
        - myotherdomain.tld
  responseheaders: # response headers are added to every response (default: none)
    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: "*"
    Access-Control-Allow-Methods: "GET,POST"
  stream:
    allowedorigins: # allowed origins for websocket connections (same origin is always allowed, default only same origin)
      - ".+.example.com"
      - "otherdomain.com"
database: # see below
  dialect: sqlite3
  connection: data/gotify.db
defaultuser: # on database creation, gotify creates an admin user (these values will only be used for the first start, if you want to edit the user after the first start use the WebUI)
  name: admin # the username of the default user
  pass: admin # the password of the default user
passstrength: 10 # the bcrypt password strength (higher = better but also slower)
uploadedimagesdir: data/images # the directory for storing uploaded images
```

You can download an example config like this:

```bash
$ wget -O config.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gotify/server/master/config.example.yml
```

**Note: the example config doesn't only contain default values.**

## Database

| Dialect  |                              Connection                              |
| :------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------: |
| sqlite3  |                        `path/to/database.db`                         |
|  mysql   |   `gotify:secret@/gotifydb?charset=utf8&parseTime=True&loc=Local`    |
| postgres | `host=localhost port=3306 user=gotify dbname=gotify password=secret` |

When using postgres without SSL then `sslmode=disable` must be added to the connection string.
See [#90](https://github.com/gotify/server/issues/90).

## Environment Variables

Strings in list or map environment settings (f.ex. `GOTIFY_SERVER_RESPONSEHEADERS` and `GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_HOSTS`) need to be escaped.
[A list of reserved characters and how to escape them.](https://stackoverflow.com/a/22235064/4244993)

See yml config documentation.

```bash
GOTIFY_SERVER_PORT=80
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_ENABLED=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_REDIRECTTOHTTPS=true
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_PORT=443
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_CERTFILE=
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_CERTKEY=
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_ENABLED=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_ACCEPTTOS=false
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_CACHE=certs
# lists are a little weird but do-able (:
GOTIFY_SERVER_SSL_LETSENCRYPT_HOSTS=- mydomain.tld\n- myotherdomain.tld
GOTIFY_SERVER_RESPONSEHEADERS="Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \"*\"\nAccess-Control-Allow-Methods: \"GET,POST\""
GOTIFY_SERVER_STREAM_ALLOWEDORIGINS="- \".+.example.com\"\n- \"otherdomain.com\""
GOTIFY_DATABASE_DIALECT=sqlite3
GOTIFY_DATABASE_CONNECTION=gotify.db
GOTIFY_DEFAULTUSER_NAME=admin
GOTIFY_DEFAULTUSER_PASS=admin
GOTIFY_PASSSTRENGTH=10
GOTIFY_UPLOADEDIMAGESDIR=images
```
