docs/pushmsg.md, before:

---
id: pushmsg
title: Push messages
---

As already indicated in [Intro](index.md) you need an application to push messages to gotify/server.
An application can be added via

- WebUI: click the `apps`-tab in the upper right corner when logged in and add an application
- REST-API: `curl -u admin:admin -X POST https://yourdomain.com/application -F "name=test" -F "description=tutorial"`
  See [API-Docs](https://gotify.github.io/api-docs/)

To authenticate as an application you need the application token.
The token is returned in the REST request and is viewable in the WebUI.

Now you can simply use [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/), [HTTPie](https://httpie.org/) or any other http-client to push messages.

```bash
$ curl -X POST "https://push.example.de/message?token=<apptoken>" -F "title=my title" -F "message=my message" -F "priority=5"
$ http -f POST "https://push.example.de/message?token=<apptoken>" title="my title" message="my message" priority="5"
```

As of gotify/server v1.2.0 only the `message` parameter is required.

[Here are more examples for pushing messages in different languages.](more-pushmsg.md)

Also you can use [gotify/cli](https://github.com/gotify/cli) to push messages.
The CLI stores url and token in a config file.

```bash
$ gotify push -t "my title" -p 10 "my message"
$ echo my message | gotify push
```

[How to install gotify/cli](https://github.com/gotify/cli).

Commit message:

Better user/applications documentation
Since only the user who created the application is allowed to get notifications from it, this should be clearer. 
There are no errors thrown, or warnings given when you send notifications and your android can't receive them.

docs/pushmsg.md, after:

---
id: pushmsg
title: Push messages
---

As already indicated in [Intro](index.md) you need an application to push messages to gotify/server. Only the user who created the application is able to get its notifications.
An application can be added via

- WebUI: click the `apps`-tab in the upper right corner when logged in and add an application
- REST-API: `curl -u admin:admin -X POST https://yourdomain.com/application -F "name=test" -F "description=tutorial"`
  See [API-Docs](https://gotify.github.io/api-docs/)

To authenticate as an application you need the application token.
The token is returned in the REST request and is viewable in the WebUI.

Now you can simply use [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/), [HTTPie](https://httpie.org/) or any other http-client to push messages.

```bash
$ curl -X POST "https://push.example.de/message?token=<apptoken>" -F "title=my title" -F "message=my message" -F "priority=5"
$ http -f POST "https://push.example.de/message?token=<apptoken>" title="my title" message="my message" priority="5"
```

As of gotify/server v1.2.0 only the `message` parameter is required.

[Here are more examples for pushing messages in different languages.](more-pushmsg.md)

Also you can use [gotify/cli](https://github.com/gotify/cli) to push messages.
The CLI stores url and token in a config file.

```bash
$ gotify push -t "my title" -p 10 "my message"
$ echo my message | gotify push
```

[How to install gotify/cli](https://github.com/gotify/cli).
